PROF-10397: Instructions for Continuous Profiler + SSI beta (#24835)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/profiler/enabling/ssi.md

tracer library versions:

| Language | Tracer library version |
|----------|------------------------|
| Java     | 1.37.0+                |
| Node.js  | 4.39.0+, 5.15.0+       |
| Python   | 2.11.1+                |

## Enable Continuous Profiler with SSI

Continuous Profiler can be enabled as part of the SSI setup by following these steps:

1. Go to the [Agent Installation Page][2] and select one of Linux platforms or Docker.
1. Toggle the "Enable APM Instrumentation" switch. (If there is no switch, the platform is not supported by SSI.) Toggling the switch adds the `DD_APM_INSTRUMENTATION_ENABLED=` environment variable to the installation command, configuring the installed agent to inject the tracer library into processes.
1. Copy the installation command into a text editor.
1. Add `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=auto` as an additional environment variable before or after `DD_APM_INSTRUMENTATION_ENABLED` in the copied command. This turns on automatic profiler enablement for all processes.
1. Proceed with rest of the installation instructions, using the modified installation command.

## How does profiling work with SSI

> After the installation, all processes on the host or in the container are executed with the

Author: That's correct.

> After the installation, all processes on the host or in the container are executed with the
> `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=auto` environment variable. Datadog recommends using the `auto` value with SSI
> instead of the `true` value. Using `true` profiles all processes that a Datadog agent can inject a
> tracer library into. Not all processes are good candidates for profiling though. With the `auto`
> setting, the Datadog tracer library decides whether the application is a good candidate for
> profiling based on its behavior and turns on the profiler accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the installation, all processes on the host or in the container are executed with the
`DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=auto` environment variable. Datadog library will then dynamically select the processes  which are relevant to turn on the profiler.
```

The logic for identifying a process as a good candidate varies by language. For Java,
all processes that are profiled as Java applications are usually deployed as a single Java process on a
host. For Node and Python, profiler is only turned on if the application is running for more than 30
seconds and has created at least one tracing span.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SSI can also be configured to inject profiling on each and every process by using `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=true`

Note: Datadog recommends to use `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=auto` to avoid profiling low value processes
```

# Reverting

> The [Single Step APM Instrumentation][1] page contains instructions for removing all
> instrumentation. Removing instrumentation also removes profiling. Additionally, you can disable
> profiling by:
> * repeating the installation instructions with `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=false` value, or
> * removing the `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED` setting from the `/etc/environment` file on the host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Single Step APM Instrumentation][1] page contains instructions for removing all
instrumentation. Removing instrumentation also removes profiling. 

Additionally, you can disable profiling by:
* repeating the installation instructions with `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=false` value, or
* removing the `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED` setting from the `/etc/environment` file on the host.
```

SSI can also be configured to inject profiling on each and every process by using
`DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=true`.

Note: Datadog recommends to use `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=auto` to avoid profiling low value processes.

# Reverting

[Single Step APM Instrumentation][1] page contains instructions for removing all
instrumentation. Removing instrumentation also removes profiling.

Additionally, you can disable profiling by:
* repeating the installation instructions with `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=false` value, or
* removing the `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED` setting from the `/etc/environment` file on the host.

Finally, you can disable profiling on a per-process basis by explicitly setting
`DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=false` on its command line.

## Special considerations for Systemd services

For host installs, the `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED` environment variable is stored in the `/etc/environment`
file, where most Linux systems automatically pick it up for all processes. Exceptions to this
are systemd services which ignore the file. For applications deployed as systemd services, you need
the following line to the application `.service` files:
```
EnvironmentFile=/etc/environment
```
Applications deployed

> on host as something other than a systemd service, and container-deployed applications do not

Reviewer 2: Double checking if this AND is correct or if it can be either OR
```suggestion
on a host as something other than a systemd service, or container-deployed applications do not
```

---
title: Single Step Instrumentation for Profiling
private: true
---

# Overview

[Continuous Profiler][3] can be enabled as part of the [Single Step APM Instrumentation][1]
(SSI) setup. Since this mode of profiler enablement is in private beta it is not yet integrated in
the UI of the agent installation page. This page thus provides instructions on how to set it up. You

> should first familiarize yourself with SSI in general.

Author: The link to the SSI page is provided above on line 8. I do agree that this could be made more clear. Maybe moving the appeal to familiarization to the start of the paragraph and rephrasing it as:
"This document presumes you are already familiar with [Single Step APM Instrumentation][1] (SSI.) [Continuous Profiler][3] can be enabled as part of the SSI  setup."
WDYT?

> should first familiarize yourself with SSI in general.

Author: Okay, went ahead and made the change – called out the need to be familiar with SSI first, placed the link there, and then just referred to it as SSI later.

> (SSI) setup. Since this mode of profiler enablement is in private beta it is not yet integrated in
> the UI of the agent installation page. This page thus provides instructions on how to set it up. You
> should first familiarize yourself with SSI in general.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(SSI) setup. Since this mode of profiler enablement is in private beta it is not yet integrated in
the UI of the agent installation page. This page provides instructions on how to set it up. You
should first familiarize yourself with SSI in general.

```

> After you enable Continuous Profiler as part of the SSI setup of Datadog agent, processes where

Author: Yeah, I agree this was not particularly clear. I wanted to give some advance explanation on how profiling works with SSI, but came to the conclusion that at this stage it is probably too early, so I removed this sentence altogether. I also renamed a section below that discussed automatic enablement to "How does profiling work with SSI". That should give the reader an understanding on the mechanics of operation.

host. For Node and Python, profiler is only turned on if the application is running for more than 30
seconds and has created at least one tracing span.

# Reverting

The [Single Step APM Instrumentation][1] page contains instructions for removing all
instrumentation. Following them removes profiling as well. Additionally, you can disable profiling
only by either:
* repeating the installation instructions with `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=false` value, or
* removing the `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED` setting from the `/etc/environment` file on the host.

Finally, you can still disable profiling on a per-process basis by explicitly setting
`DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=false` on its command line.

# Special Consideration for Systemd Services

For host installs, the `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED` environment variable is stored in `/etc/environment`
file where most Linux systems automatically pick it up for all processes. Notable exception to this
are systemd services which ignore the file. For applications deployed as systemd services, you need
to add the
```
EnvironmentFile=/etc/environment
```
line to their `.service` files. We are working on eliminating this extra step. Applications deployed

> on host as something other than a systemd service, as well as container-deployed application do not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
on host as something other than a systemd service, and container-deployed applications do not
```
